you know my steez no intro no outro just
real talk a few people were mortified
and scandalized that I as a vegan as an
aspiring vegan activist that I would
criticize dr. Michael Greger and his non
pardon me his nonprofit foundation
Nutrition Facts org for the brutal
financial reality that they are
collecting 1.5 million dollars per year
in in round numbers about one and a half
million dollars per year in donations in
order to produce YouTube videos you look
at the website just look at their
YouTube channel you cannot take a glance
at what that foundation is doing and say
that this justifies a budget of 1.5
million dollars per annum can't can't do
it it's ridiculous now the question I'm
raising here is at some point doesn't
efficiency become an ethical issue at
some point isn't inefficiency evil
alright
now I'm not saying what dr. Greger was
doing is worthless I'm not saying that
and you can look at you can google IRS
Form 990 and then add the words
nutrition facts org
and you can find it yourself precisely
how much money they're spending I have
here for the current year or 2017 1
million 1 million four hundred eighty
thousand two or twenty three dollars you
can get the precise figures for how much
money they're spending and then you can
look again at that YouTube channel and
ask yourself where the is 1.5
million dollars going in this YouTube
channel and they don't do nothing else
okay it is not the case that they're
handing out packages of food to starving
people
Haidee it is not the case that they are
taking you know solid steel tubes and
installing sewage systems in third-world
countries it is not the case that dr.
Michael Greger is flying first-class in
order to perform heart surgery on people
in war zones who need the help
nothing like that is happening here
right
this is 1.5 million dollars going into
supporting nothing but some
self-indulgent Polly research YouTube
videos and you know that's true
if you have ever taken the time to fact
check Michael Gregor's work I'm a vegan
I sympathize with his bias but he is
biased as hell
his work is sloppy it's full of
irresponsible garbage he goes off on
tangents both during live lectures and
his YouTube videos that can't be
justified he make generalizations that
are dangerous and wrong says stuff off
the top of his head that you know he
plays fast and loose about stuff that he
really should neither be fast with rusev
Oh dr. Michael Greger personally
personally gets paid one hundred and
eighty four thousand dollars to be
precise one hundred eighty four thousand
three hundred and ninety US dollars okay
little bit under two hundred thousand US
dollars per year if you watch my channel
you will know that that's actually a
normal salary for a family doctor in the
United States of America that is not
extraordinary that is about the amount
of money he could expect to make in a
normal medical practice however dr.
Greger does not now have a normal
medical practice he never has at any
point in his life had a normal medical
practice he wears a lab coat right he
looks like a doctor
he finished medical school and went
directly into this public health
education thing that he does all he does
is read peer-reviewed journal articles
and then chitchat about these latest
developments in medical science on a
YouTube channel in a very casual and
sometimes
irresponsible and erroneous way and he
sometimes flies around the world and
gives lectures okay
this whole foundation according to the
paperwork form 990 they have only three
paid employees so if you think one point
five million dollars is employing a
bunch of people no dr. Michael Greger
then there's a technician
it says chief tech and then there's an
executive assistants I assume it says
the exact executive di so executive
director or executive assistant that's
it that's the whole organization that's
those the only people getting paid
there's also a secretary who is not
getting paid a treasurer working on a
volunteer basis all right this is not
1.5 million dollars going to fund a huge
staff it's not going to fund a single
researcher or hate this is not 1.5
million dollars going to laboratory
medicine it's not going to humanitarian
work okay this is 1.5 million dollars
going to support a YouTube
channel priyad there is no other
activism here there's no other
justification you know what if you feel
if you feel that dr. Michael Greger is
earning a salary of $200,000 per year
that's debatable if you think it's worth
$200,000 per year
why can't you eliminate the inefficiency
of paying 1.5 million dollars just to
deliver that $200,000 damn already from
my perspective that is evil dr. Michael
Greger should close down this foundation
and just open a patreon and receive two
hundred thousand dollars in donations
per year he can receive that salary you
can earn that here on YouTube doing this
public education outreach he does not
need a 1.5 million dollar foundation in
order to provide him with that two or
dozen or so if the outcome we want here
is for Michael Greger to be highly
motivated and feel rewarded feel like
his time and effort is well spent and to
earn a salary a generous salary of two
hundred thousand US dollars per year if
that's not what we're debating fine
maybe it's worth it let him earn that
without wasting another one point
three million dollars it's ridiculous
okay this is not the only catastrophe of
its kind on YouTube and I'm saying
catastrophe I'm not saying it's a scam
it's not a scam the books are open
anyone can Google this just
google their IRS filing or for 990 you
can look at the withering discouraging
numbers and ask yourself what the
are you doing with your money donating
to this horseshit
okay this is not the only catastrophe of
its kind on YouTube TYT The Young Turks
they keep doing multi-million dollar
fundraisers for what in order to upload
completely on the researched casual
YouTube videos talking about politics
they did a two million dollar fundraiser
they've raised more than two million
dollars to support their investigative
journalism or so there's a separate
YouTube channel that's called TYT
investigates you can look at if you look
it up right now it's even more withering
than looking at the nutrition facts
YouTube channel it's just a guy sitting
in front of a camera like this casually
talking about a little bit of reading
eat it and that is it they have hour
long videos I'm not gonna say it's
garbage but it doesn't justify a budget
of two million dollars right they raised
two million dollars so they've done many
multi-million dollar fundraisers by the
way this wasn't the only one TYT The
Young Turks they raised two million
dollars to help Stoke up their
Investigative Journalism wing they hired
know Mickey Const okay with this two
million dollars whether they hired one
journalist named know Mickey Const fired
just a couple months later I'm sorry I
was not able to figure out how many
months they employed her for but for a
few months they had this woman Vickie
Const and then she was gone and they
hired another investigative journalist
who turned around so the other
investigative journalists they hired is
called Andrew Jones they only hired him
for a few months according this website
six months and then he sued them so I
take it he quit and sued them
saying that they were racist against
them and they held them to a different
standard than white employees okay
so now if you were one of the people
gullible enough to donate your
money to The Young Turks you get to look
at it where did the two million dollars
go and you can just just do the same
thing I'm telling you to do with
nutrition just look at that
YouTube page you YouTube look
gyt investigate the youtubers look at
this and ask yourself does this
look like two million dollars twelve
million u.s. dollars were poured into
the charity of paying for this guy to
sit in front of the camera and
just talk off the top of his head about
some five pages of
reading he did little tiny bit
of research where do the two million
dollars go okay dr. Greger I have to ask
the same question I do this same
on YouTube there's some YouTube
videos of presented here that represent
years of research all right years of
research learning languages I
studied Cambodian I lived in Cambodia I
D humanitarian work in Cambodia I have
years of depth of research and
experience on Cambodia and I sometimes
make youtube videos talking about
Cambodian politics I'm not asking you to
pay me two hundred thousand dollars I'm
not asking you to pay me two million
dollars this is ridiculous if you know
sorry the level of research that the
Young Turks put into their investigates
channel or the level of research that
dr. Greger puts in his YouTube videos it
does not justify the unbelievable
inefficiency of a 1.5 million dollar
budget per annum and I mean if you feel
it justifies a salary of two hundred
thousand dollars a year for dr. Greger
then you should be able to pay that
directly without wasting more than a
million dollars otherwise this
ridiculous in my mind immoral foundation
okay at what point does efficiency
become a moral problem let's say we
travel back in time and we sit down in a
room with a guy named Nixon president ed
states and some of his detractors on the
left wing
we sit down so hey you know what we just
traveled back in time this war you want
to fight in Vietnam you know what you
know what you can win the Vietnam War
you can create a capitalist democracy in
Vietnam but it's going to be inefficient
you know what that inefficiency involves
minimum 1 million human casualties more
likely over 2 million Vietnamese are
going to be killed that's a little
inefficiency if you think about it and
now I want you guys to why don't you
guys sit down and debate here Nixon and
some people from laughing why don't you
debate whether or not this idea you've
got of creating a capitalist democracy
in Vietnam is worth killing two million
people for yeah and you know what you're
also gonna kind of bankrupt the United
States of America there are some other
inefficiencies built in I want you to
questions at some point inefficiency
becomes evil it becomes an ethical
problem even if the goal you're pursuing
is worthwhile you know what they need of
a medical doctor reading a few
articles and making a youtube video
talking about the latest updates and
science from a vegan perspective that
sounds great for 1.5 million dollars per
year year after year after ten years
that's 15 million dollars think about
what a positive difference you can make
in the world for those 15 million
dollars it's sick it's disgusting
okay hey let's step it up a notch Adolf
Hitler do you want to fight a war travel
back in time you want to fight your war
to destroy Adolf Hitler sounds good
Adolf Hitler is evil you want to fight
award is oh hey there's a little
inefficiency built into it you know what
that is you're gonna become allies with
Joseph Stalin Joseph Stalin the only
other human being alive at that time who
had killed more people than Adolf Hitler
and because of that alliance with Joseph
Stalin you're gonna hand over Poland to
him you're gonna hand over a whole chunk
of Eastern Europe then you're gonna hand
over the the northernmost islands of
Japan sakhalin island you're gonna hand
over key and then he's gonna have
unquestioned power to go on murdering
people for decades after World War two
ends yeah yeah little bit of
inefficiency in there little bit
moral compromise that you became allies
with the only human being on earth who's
worse than Adolf Hitler in order to
defeat it off Italy
see see it gets morally complex when you
think about inefficiency and you're
willing to admit to yourself that it is
an ethical problem okay if you think dr.
Greger is earning $200,000 a year doing
his form of vegan advocacy
which I can sympathize with it's not
that different from the advocacy I do
here on YouTube for $200 a month
great pay him the $200,000 and this
it cannot justify a budget of
1.5 million dollars per year